ugrep: add page (#7750)
tldr-pages/tldr: pages/common/ugrep.md

# ugrep

> > Ultra fast search tool with query UI, fuzzy search and more.

Reviewer: Could we use a non-subjective description here?
```suggestion
> A search tool with an interactive query UI, fuzzy search and more.
```

Author: Well, the benefit of ugrep is also its great speed. I know... there are lots that claim speed but ugrep runs multiple threads and we worked hard and continued to do so to beat ripgrep on several fronts. We succeeded to do so. Perhaps "_Ultra fast search tool with interactive query UI, fuzzy search and more._"?

Reviewer 2: Hmmm, perhaps this is less subjective?
```suggestion
> Search tool with a focus on speed. Has an interactive query UI, fuzzy search and more.
```

Author: Great suggestion! That works and is not too long.

> > Try also `ugrep --help {{something}}`.

Reviewer 3: I am not sure whether it's a good idea to place `--help` example here (what about to move it to the bottom?). I think tldr page format must be changed in order to allow add some samples for `--help`/`--version` options. For instance we can increase allowed code sample count or allow such lines for all pages after command description. On the other hand such options are common for many commands (but not for all).

Author: The `--help` option is different than usual in that it shows specific help for `{{something}}`. So I agree it is not common to see it at the top of the tldr page. I doubted adding this too, but also thought that putting it in a code sample takes away something that is "actionable" and not just intended for help. It is more of a thing that is complementary to tldr and a man page. So I'm not sure what to do either.

Reviewer 2: In this case it's perhaps base to put it as an example if it's important.

> More information: <https://github.com/Genivia/ugrep>.

> - Start a [q]uery TUI to search files in the working directory recursively (CTRL-Z for help):

Author: That reads a bit better. Looks fine.

> `ugrep -Q`

Reviewer: We prefer long arguments if available.
```suggestion
`ugrep --query`
```

Author: Um, all short options have long versions but I do not think it is a good idea to replace short options by long ones. The other grep-like search tool tldr pages also use short options. Please keep `-Q` in this case. Thanks.

> - Search the working directory recursively for files containing a regex pattern:

Reviewer: We commonly use `current`
```suggestion
- Search the current directory recursively for files containing a regex pattern:
```

Author: Officially the wording is "working" directory which I prefer, but they mean the same thing. Like the Unix/Linux `pwd` command "returns working directory name" (literally from the man page). But cwd is also used. It's not critical to me either way.

Reviewer 2: If the official technical language is `working`, then it does make sense to keep it as `working` in this instance, though in the interests of consistency with other pages  I think `current` is best in this specific case.

Author: Let's use `current` for consistency.

`ugrep "{{pattern}}"`

- Search for a case-[i]nsensitive regex pattern:

> `ugrep -i "{{pattern}}"`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`ugrep --ignore-case "{{pattern}}"`
```

Author: No please don't use the long option here. The option `-I` is be the same as standard GNU grep, which has the short `-i` (and long one too). Otherwise the relationship of ugrep to grep is lost. Also other tools in tldr use short options like `-I` to mean the same thing, so why change this for ugrep?

Reviewer 2: Let's keep the short option here to maintain compatibility.

Author: I agree. Not to be pedantic about this, but I question the practice to use long options with tldr pages. Isn't the goal to keep things simple? Long options require more mental effort and a lot more keyboard typing to execute. The names of short options (in the case of grep at least) are carefully decided in the past when these utilities were first introduced. Some options have a global meaning that is applicable to many other utilities as well (e.g. `-r` for recursion).

> - Search for a case-[i]nsensitive regex pattern:
> 
> `ugrep -i "{{pattern}}"`

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Search for a case-insensitive regex pattern:

`ugrep --ignore-case "{{pattern}}"`
```

Author: I understand, but please see navarroaxel comments and our discussion, which I think was resolved in keeping the short options. There are several good reasons for this: 1) grep also uses the same short options so using long options loses the relationship of ugrep to grep, 2) the same short options are used by other tools like `ag`, 3) certain short options are very common for file search tools such as `-i`, `-l`, `-r` (for recursion), and `-z`, 4) using these long options requires more mental effort by the reader and a lot more typing to enter the command and options that should be the same as the good old grep tool but now look different. Isn't tldr supposed to be as short and concise as possible? As a computer scientist, I know that all short options must have long option equivalents as strongly recommended by standards. But that does not mean we should always use them, when common well-knowns short options are easy to remember and use.

Reviewer 3: Maybe this is personally my problem but for me it's hard to remember what `-i`|`-l`|`-r` mean because not always there is any rules how these short options are written. The worth case when there are several options with just different case. When I read my scripts with such options I need go to tldr/man page/google it to understand meaning. Long options easier to read at my glance (but not always).

Author: I'm not saying that all short options are always good and I agree generally with your assessment on the readability argument. However, for grep search tools the options `-i`, `-l` and `-z` are well understood and used without people thinking much about it. Also, as another example of this, `-r` is typically recursion, e.g. `cp`, `mv`, `rm`, `ls` and many other utilities use this option too. So these are more or less "natural" for a lack of better way to say this.

Author: Oh, I see now after reviewing more pages that tldr grep page also uses long options. But that's awful IMHO, very sorry to say... The `cp`, `rm` etc. utilities have pages with short options simply because they never had long options to begin with. OK, so I agree that for consistency long options should be used with tldr pages.

Reviewer 3: We are thinking about modify Tl;Dr specification to allow user switch between pages with short/long options. If you have smth to say please leave your comment.

- [L]ist the matching files:

> `ugrep -l "{{pattern}}"`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`ugrep --files-with-matches "{{pattern}}"`
```

Author: See earlier comment. Same applies here. The `ag` tool tldr pages also use short options.

> - [L]ist the matching files:
> 
> `ugrep -l "{{pattern}}"`

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- List the matching files:

`ugrep --files-with-matches "{{pattern}}"`
```

> - Search compressed files, [z]ip and tar archives recursively:
> 
> `ugrep -z "{{pattern}}"`

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Search compressed files, zip and tar archives recursively:

`ugrep --decompress "{{pattern}}"`
```

- Fu[z]zy search files with up to 3 extra, missing or mismatching characters in the pattern:

> `ugrep -Z3 "{{pattern}}"`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`ugrep --fuzzy=3 "{{pattern}}"`
```

Author: Regrettably the Fu[z]zy sentence above it won't match the use of the `-Z` option any longer, right?

Reviewer 3: We prefer long options when possible because they are easier to remember then short ones.

> - Search only files whose filenames match a [g]lob pattern:
> 
> `ugrep -g "{{glob}}" "{{pattern}}"`

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Search only files whose filenames match a glob pattern:

`ugrep --glob="{{*.txt}}" "{{pattern}}"`
```

Author: I suggested earlier to navarroaxel that `--glob="foo*.???"` would work (or with `-g="foo*.???"`), so either way is fine with me to help out here.

> - Search only files of a specific [t]ype or another type and not a type:

Reviewer: :thinking:  Perhaps a specific example is more easier to understand, also for non-native English speakers.

Author: Good point. the `"{{glob}}"` can be something like `"{{foo*.???}}"` for example.
